>> Jem Young: So let's give it a shot.
We're not gonna do too much yet,
but memorize or understand how
to do these commands like how to type,
how to edit, how to save and quit.
Because we will be using
them pretty much all day.
It sounds intimidating.
It won't be well, we'll go really slow.
>> Jem Young: So to fire up vim,
you can type in vi,
the man pages again just to
show you that what we're doing.
I don't like to give you commands and
you don't understand why.
So I'll just do it now,
clear, and I'll type in vi.
>> Jem Young: Nothing to it.
Now we're in a text editor.
Let's say I wanna type something.
So right now I'm in command mode so
I can just say i, and
at the bottom screen here we see insert,
means we're in insert mode.
Hello, and to get out of insert mode,
hit Escape.
And now I'm no longer in insert mode,
right?
We've got this so far.
It's intimidating until you
start playing around with it.
So to get into last line mode,
I'm gonna hit Shift+colon.
See there's a colon here
at the bottom screen.
And to quit, I can say q,
but it's not gonna let me,
thus the Q bang if I wanna override,
but I don't quit yet.
Let's say I want to save this file,
as, something, I don't know.
So I can say wq, I didn't give it a file
name, and I'm not gonna name this one.
So I'm just gonna say q quit.
>> Jem Young: Did everybody
managed to get in and get out?
That's, [LAUGH] probably 90% of it is
just getting in inserting something and
getting out.
If I wanna create a filename, actually,
I think we'll do it on the next exercise,
yeah.
So let's create a file.
I could say, vi call temp.
>> Jem Young: So now I'm in the new file,
I'll say, go into insert mode,
say hello, everyone.
Exclamation points and
to write quit say wq.
It means write and quit.
If I just wanna save I hit write,
can't open file for writing, what?
wq, try that, I don't know why
it's not letting me write.
I know why.
This we are gonna learn
a lesson in permissions.
So right now I'm in root directory,
so I'm going on a tangent, and
you can't write things in root directory,
it just won't let you.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna cd~ and
what this means is it's
just change directory and
this is just shortcut for home.
So now if I do pwd, I'm in my home
directory, now I can write files freely.
Almost, actually not almost, no operating
system is gonna let you write in root,
in the root directory,
just cuz it's a bad idea.
[LAUGH] You don't wanna mess in here cuz
this is the base of your computer and
if you start writing files left and
right, bad idea.
So always we wanna make sure we're
just in our home directory or
some working directory.
And ls, we can see we're in our directory.
So now, vi temp, and
now I can write Hello everyone!
And w quits, save,
if I wanna take a look at that,
I can say cat temp, nothing to it.
I can use less temp, Hello everyone!
Nothing to see, q to quit.
All right, everybody in, out,
edited a file, saved it?
Cool, we'll be doing more of that later.
So I don't wanna spend
too much time on it.
But you will get stuck probably and you're
gonna get stuck with bad permissions or
something like that.
Just let me know if you do or reference
back the slides and make sure when you
write a file, you're in the right
directory with the right permissions.
So that was vim.
I just spent a lot more time on it.
But then I realized,
you learn by doing not by me telling you.